



# mkd [cheat sheet](https://www.markdownguide.org/cheat-sheet/) 

## WE are starting out from this [chat](https://chat.openai.com/share/1566b773-3fcf-4704-823b-fc59c7ff9e79)

**That has given us this file structure:**
**api/:** This directory will contain modules related to interacting with APIs.
    api_request.py: This script/module will handle making requests to the API and processing the data.

**database/:** This directory will contain modules related to database operations.
    db_functions.py: This script/module will contain functions for interacting with the PostgreSQL database.

**scripts/:** This directory will contain the main script that orchestrates the actions,   such as connecting to the database, fetching data from the API, and performing operations.
    main.py: This is the main script that will call functions from other modules to perform the desired tasks.

**requirements.txt:** This file will list all the Python dependencies required for your project. You can generate this file using ==pip freeze > requirements.txt== after installing necessary packages.

**config:** This will store all the requierd credentials for connecting to the database and the API. 
    configurations.py: for credentials
    secrets.py: for passwords and sensitive information. 



**a bref description:** 
    api_request.py: This module will contain functions to interact with the API. For example, you might have functions to send requests, process responses, and extract relevant data.

    db_functions.py: This module will contain functions for interacting with the PostgreSQL database. It might include functions for creating tables, inserting data, querying data, etc.

    main.py: This script will serve as the entry point of your application. It will import functions from api_request.py and db_functions.py to orchestrate the workflow. For example, it might call functions to fetch data from the API and then insert it into the database.


##PLAN 


**To populate the database** 
The branch is created to secure a stablie checpoint if I get lost in the sauce.. 

The thing is: 
I think the plan now is: 
    Api folder: stores the intial pupulation of the database that will only be used once..? 
                And the update script that will fetch only the updated messurments. 

    Database folder: Will contain the creation of the data base and its tables, constraints and relations.

    The script folder: will contain the acutal function of the data base, loggin, flagging, stuff like that... 
                        Also the main script that will initaite all the other scripts and functions I guess.. .



##  **CHECKPOINT!**
